Refactor docker install doc (#1252)
Enalean/tuleap-documentation-en: languages/en/installation-guide/docker/docker_compose.rst

Docker Compose
===============

.. _env-variables:

The Environment
````````````````
In a special directory (created only for the Tuleap stack), create a ``.env`` file that defines these variables:

.. code-block:: ini

    TULEAP_FQDN="tuleap.example.com"
    MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD="some random strong password"
    TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD="another strong password"
    SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD="and a third strong password"

Please be aware that you need **double quotes** around your variables in order for docker to parse the whole string. 

Please check the :ref:`environment variables <docker-environment-variables>` to know what they stand for.

Tuleap Community
`````````````````
.. _docker-images-compose:

.. warning::

>     The following section is meant for test purpose only. The databases (MySQL and Redis) are handled by Docker and it is not a recommend setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following section is meant for test purpose only. The databases (MySQL and Redis) are handled by Docker and it is not a recommended setup.
```

Docker Compose
===============

.. _env-variables:

The Environment
````````````````
In a special directory (created only for the Tuleap stack), create a ``.env`` file that defines these variables:

> .. code-block::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: ini
```

    TULEAP_FQDN=tuleap.example.com
    MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=some random strong password
    TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD=another strong password

>     SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD=and a third strong password

Reviewer: thought: Does it work with `=` in a password ? I remember having a hard time with an env file once because of a special character in a password. Might be nice to warn people about that (even though that's going above and beyond)

Reviewer: I did not know about the double quotes, thanks !

> * ``TULEAP_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine you are going to run Tuleap on. As we saw in pre-requisite section, it should be the name of your docker host either from DNS or at very least defined in ``/etc/hosts`` (will resolve only locally).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``TULEAP_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine you are going to run Tuleap on. As we saw in pre-requisite section, it should be the name of your docker host either from DNS or at the very least defined in ``/etc/hosts`` (will resolve only locally).
```

* ``MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD`` will be the root password of your mysql instance.
* ``TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD`` will be the password used by Tuleap application to connect to the database (default user ``tuleapadm``)
* ``SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD`` will be the password of the Tuleap site administrator application user.

> Notes about passwords:

Reviewer: nitpick: this section would better fit in the images-configuration page

Author: Makes sense

* we recommend at least 20 chars but only alphabetical & numbers,
* they are set at the site initialization only (not updated automatically).

Tuleap Community
`````````````````
.. _docker-images-compose:

.. warning::

    The following section is meant for test purpose only. The databases (MySQL and Redis) are handled by Docker and it is not a recommend setup.

Then create a ``compose.yaml`` file with following content:

.. code-block:: yaml

    version: "2"

    services:
      web:
        image: tuleap/tuleap-community-edition
        hostname: ${TULEAP_FQDN}
        restart: always
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
          - "22:22"
        volumes:
          - tuleap-data:/data
        depends_on:
          - db
          - redis
          - mailhog
        environment:

>           - TULEAP_FQDN=${TULEAP_FQDN}

Reviewer: question: what happened to the `.env` file frome above ? It looks like we never use it. From the top of my head, the compose file needs an `environment_file:` property

Author: AFAIK, the `env_file` property is there to use an environment file that is not stored on the root of the project. https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/set-environment-variables/

Reviewer: Ok, I did not know about that. Thanks !

Tuleap Enterprise
`````````````````
.. attention::

  This image is only available to :ref:`Tuleap Enterprise <tuleap-enterprise>` subscribers. Please contact your support
  team to get your access to the private registry.

You first need to authenticate towards Tuleap's registry:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker login docker.tuleap.org

You should add these variables in your ``.env`` file (along with the :ref:`aforementioned ones <env-variables>`):

.. code-block::

    TULEAP_VERSION=15.0-1
    DB_FQDN=mysql.example.com
    REDIS_FQDN=redis.example.com

* ``TULEAP_VERSION`` is the version of Tuleap Enterprise you wish to use. There is no ``latest``, and the version format is either ``15.0`` or ``15.0-1``.
* ``DB_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine hosting the Database.
* ``REDIS_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine hosting Redis.

.. code-block:: yaml

    version: "2"

    services:
    tuleap:
        image: docker.tuleap.org/tuleap-enterprise-edition:${TULEAP-VERSION}
        hostname: ${TULEAP_FQDN}
        restart: always
        ports:
          - "80:80"
          - "443:443"
          - "22:22"
        volumes:
        - tuleap-data:/data
        environment:

>         - TULEAP_FQDN=${TULEAP_FQDN}

Reviewer: question: same as above, are we using the `.env` file ? From what I can read, it seems not

Author: Same answer :)

Reviewer: Thanks

    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,731 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/fpm.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,731 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/httpd.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/nginx.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/postfix.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/rsyslog.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/sshd.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisord.d/supervisord-server-credentials.ini" during parsing
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,732 INFO Set uid to user 0 succeeded
    web_1      | 2021-06-15 14:46:50,769 INFO RPC interface 'supervisor' initialized
    ...

You can then quit the logs command (Ctrl+C) and open your browser at the address set in ``TULEAP_FQDN`` and that's it.

> The docker-compose file provided here is for general guidance and you should adapt to your environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The docker-compose file provided here is for general guidance and you should adapt it to your environment. 
```

> One of the main thing you will want to configure is a proper email relay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main things you will want to configure is a proper email relay.
```

Docker Compose
===============

.. _env-variables:

The Environment
````````````````

> In a directory named ``tuleap-stack`` (be careful, with docker-compose, directory name matters) create a

Reviewer 2: Why does it matters here? There is nothing hardcoded to it as far as I can see.

* we recommend at least 20 chars but only alphabetical & numbers,
* they are set at the site initialization only (not updated automatically).

Tuleap Community
`````````````````
.. _docker-images-compose:

.. warning::

>     The following section is meant for test purpose only. The databases (mysql and redis) are handled by docker and it's
>     not a recommended setup unless you perfectly understand how to operate (run, backup, restore, troubleshoot) them under
>     docker constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The following section is meant for test purpose only. The databases (MySQL and Redis) are handled by Docker and it is not a recommend setup.
```

There is no "unless", it is not recommended.

        environment:
          - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=${MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD}
        volumes:

>           - db-data:/var/lib/mysql

Reviewer 2: If you rename that you should also rename L92.

      db80-data:
      redis-data:

> By default, we spawned a `mailhog <https://github.com/mailhog/MailHog>`_ image

Reviewer 2: It would be preferable to completely drop mailhog from the compose file. It is basically unmaintained for 3 years.

that will catch all mails sent by Tuleap and display to anyone who have access to the interface. You will be able to access it after starting the stack 

To see the mails captured by mailhog, you should run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker inspect -f '{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' $(docker-compose ps -q mailhog)
    172.21.0.2

This will give you the IP address of the container that runs mailhog, you can then open a browser at this IP address on port ``8025``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ xdg-open http://172.21.0.2:8025

Tuleap Enterprise
`````````````````
.. attention::

  This image is only available to :ref:`Tuleap Enterprise <tuleap-enterprise>` subscribers. Please contact your support
  team to get your access to the private registry.

You first need to authenticate towards Tuleap's registry:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker login docker.tuleap.org

> You should add these variables in your ``.env`` file (along with the :ref:`aforementionned ones <env-variables>`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should add these variables in your ``.env`` file (along with the :ref:`aforementioned ones <env-variables>`):
```

.. code-block::

    TULEAP_VERSION=15.0-1
    DB_FQDN=some random strong password

>     REDIS_FQDN=another strong password

Reviewer 2: Those are not password.

* ``TULEAP_VERSION`` is the version of Tuleap Enterprise you wish to use. There is no ``latest``, and the version format is either ``15.0`` or ``15.0-1``.
* ``DB_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine hosting the Database.
* ``REDIS_FQDN`` is the full name of the machine hosting Redis.

.. code-block:: yaml

    version: "2"

    services:
    tuleap:
        image: docker.tuleap.org/tuleap-enterprise-edition:${TULEAP-VERSION}
        hostname: ${TULEAP_FQDN}
        restart: always
        volumes:
        - tuleap-data:/data
        environment:
        - TULEAP_FQDN=${TULEAP_FQDN}
        - TULEAP_SYS_DBHOST=${DB_FQDN}
        - TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD=${TULEAP_SYS_DBPASSWD}
        - SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD=${SITE_ADMINISTRATOR_PASSWORD}
        - DB_ADMIN_USER=root
        - DB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=${MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD}
        - TULEAP_FPM_SESSION_MODE=redis
        - TULEAP_REDIS_SERVER=${REDIS_FQDN}

    nginx:
        image: nginx:latest
        restart: always
        ports:
        - 80:80
        - 443:443
        volumes:
        - ./nginx/certs:/certs

>         - ./nginx/nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf

Reviewer 2: Why is this needed?

Author: I believed it was best to spawn an RP directly into the stack. Your review made me realize that it should not be a "by default" setting, as well as it is not in fact necessary for Tuleap to function correctly.
